
Bayesian nonparametric lifetime analysis (BNP-LA) is a software packaged developed base on the framework described 
in "Fluorescence Lifetime: Beating the IRF and interpulse window" by Mohamadreza Fazel, Alexander Vallmitjana, 
Lorenzo Scipioni, Enrico Gratton, Michelle A. Digman and Steve Presse, bioRxiv(2022). 

BNP-LA is capable of dealing with a broad range of lifetimes and photon ratios using as few photons as 500
acquired using a pulsed illumination procedure. The software package comes with a gui and here we illustrate 
how to work with the gui. To open the gui set your MATLAB path to the Functios-folder and type gui in the 
command window. The gui has 4 sections:

1) Exp Params: this section contains parameters from the experimental setup:
          Interpulse time: the period between two consecutive laser pulses in ns (Default: 12.8ns)
          IRF mean:        mean of the Gaussian IRF in ns (Default: 12.2ns)
          IRF sigma:       sigma of the Gaussian IRF in ns (Default: 0.66ns)
          
2) Method Params:
	  Max Species:     Maximum number of species (described by M in the paper) to be considered in the
	  		   Dirichlet process. This should be larger than the number of species present in 
	  		   the input data (Default: 5)
	  Max Pulses:      Maximum number of pulses that a fluorophore might stay excited (Default: 5)
	  Alpha:	   parameter of the gamma prior on lifetimes (Default: 1)
	  Beta:	           parameter of the gamma prior on lifetimes (Default: 50)
	  
3) Section with no title:
	  Photon Count:    number of photons to be used within the analysis
	  Iterations:      number of samples to be taken from the posterior
	  LOAD DATA:       this button popups a directory where data file can be picked
	  RUN:             this button runs the algorithm
	  
4) Results:
	  Photon Ratio Threshold: the plots will show samples with photon ratios (weights) larger than this value
	  Parameter:              pick one of the options from the popup menu to be shown
	  PLOT:                   this button will plot the results for the parameter picked above
	  
	  
There is a set of simulated data with lifetimes of 0.2ns and 0.6ns (both below the IRF) with the default 
parameters in the gui. Use the load button to load the data and hit RUN. It will take less than 30s to 
analyze the data. Next, pick one of the parameters from the popup menu in the "Results" section and hit PLOT.   
	   
	   
